---
layout: post
title: Math 6510 Pset 2
last_updated: 2025-05-28
---

[comment]: THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED FROM Math6510pset2.tex. IT WILL BE REWRITTEN ON CHANGE OF THE .tex FILE!

> **Problem:**
>
> ::: proof
> *A.* Let $C_n(CK)$ be the group of n chains on $CK$. This implies that
> the boundary map $\partial_n: C_n(CK)\to C_{n-1} (CK)$ maps a simplex
> to its boundary.
>
> Now lets define $h: C_n(CK)\to C_{n+1}(CK)$. This implies that
> $\partial_{n+!}(h(a))= a-h(\partial_n(a))$. since the boundary of a
> cone over $a$ consists of $a$ and the cone.
>
> Now suppose $x\in C_n(CK)$. Then $\partial_n(c)=0$ this implies that
> $\partial_{n+1}(h(c)) = c - h(\partial_n(c)) \Rightarrow \partial_{n+1}(h(c))=c$
> since $\partial_n(c)=0$. Thus $c$ is a boundary. Now since every n
> cycle in $CK$ is a bounadrt, all homology groups are equal to $0$ for
> $n>0$. ◻
> :::

> **Problem:**
>
> -   Now suppose $X$, $Y$ are homotopy equiv this implies that
>     $f:X\to Y$, $g: Y\to X$ exist such that
>     $g\circ f ~ id_X, f \circ g ~ id_Y$. This implies that given
>     $f: (X,\varnothing)\to (Y,\varnothing), g:(Y, \varnothing)\to (X,\varnothing)$
>     that we get the compostion is equivalent to the idetities.
>     Therefore the sets are homototpy equivalent as pairs.
>
>     Suppose they are homotpy equivlaent as pairs. then the maps
>     between them must compose to be equivalent to the identity
>     elements which implies these maps are homotpies which of the
>     underlying spaces $X, Y$, so they are homotpy equivlaen. Thus iff.
>
>     Now suppose $B$ is nonempty then there is a map
>     $f:(X\varnothing)\to (Y,B), g:(Y,B)\to (X, \varnothing)$ where the
>     compostion is equivalent to an idenity element. But since $f$ must
>     map $\varnothing$ to $B$, this can only happen if $B$ is nonempoty
>     thus $B$ must be nonempty otherwise contradiction.
>
> -   Give homotpy equivalence $f$ implies there are maps such that the
>     compostion is equivalent to $id_{X,A}$ and $id_{Y, B}$. Thus since
>     they are also homotypies of their underlying spaces, they are
>     homotopy equivlaent.
>
> -   

> **Problem:**
>
> Now consider the pair $(C_f, Y)$, $Y$ is a subspace of $C_f$. Now this
> implies a log exacty sequence must exist that looks like
> $$\cdots \to H_i(Y)\to H_i(C_f)\to H_i(C_f, Y)\to H_{i-1}(Y)\to \cdots$$
> Now since since $C_f$ is constructed by attatching $X\times I$ to $Y$
> via $f$. This implies that $H_i(C_f, Y)$ is isomorpihc to $\Sigma X$.
> Now since
> $\hat H)_i(\Sigma X))\equiv \hat H_{i-1}(X), H_i(C_f, Y)\equiv \hat H_{i-1}(X)$.
> implies that by substituting this isomorpihsm into our long exact
> sequence implies a sequence of the form requested.

> **Problem:**
>
> 1.  Now since we know the sequence is exact implies the image
>     $\mathbb{Z}/p$ in $G$ is isomorphic to $\mathbb{Z}/p$ and the
>     quotient of $G/(\mathbb{Z}/p)$ is isomorpihc to $\mathbb{Z}/q$.
>     Thus $G$ extends $\mathbb{Z}/p$ by $\mathbb{Z}/q$.
>
>     Suppose that $p=q$. Then since $G$ is abelian implies it must be
>     finitely generated by a abelian group with cardinality $p^2$. Now
>     since we know for primes the only abelian groups of cardinality
>     $p^2$ are $\mathbb{Z}/p \times \mathbb{Z}/p$ and $\mathbb{Z}/p^2$
>     implies these are the possible groups for $G$.
>
>     Now suppose that $p\neq q$. Then lagranges thoerm implies if a
>     common subgroup exists its order must divide both $p,$. But since
>     they are primes implies no nontrivial subgroups. This implies
>     since groups are abelian that $G$ must be isomorphic to
>     $\mathbb{Z}/p \times \mathbb{Z}/q$, therefore it is the only
>     possible group.
>
> 2.  Since the sequence is short implies injectivity from $A\to B$
>     which implies that $Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, A)\to Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, B)$
>     is injective. This implies exactnes at $Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, A)$.
>
>     Now since the map from $\mathbb{Z}^n\to B$ is in the kernel of
>     $Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, B)\to Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, C)$ implies when it is
>     comples with $B\to C$ it maps to 0 implying that it maps to $A$.
>     This impies exactness at $Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, B)$
>
>     Now since $B\to C$ is surjective given defition of SES implies
>     that $Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, B)\to Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, C)$ is surjective.
>     This implies exactness at$Hom(\mathbb{Z}^n, C)$
>
>     Now since we have exactnes at all three locations implies the
>     sequence is exact. 0◻
>
> 3.  Suppose instead of $\mathbb{Z}^n$ let the group be $\mathbb{Z}/2$.
>     Then $$0\to \mathbb{Z}/2 \to \mathbb{Z}/4 \to \mathbb{Z}/2\to 0$$
>     Implies that since
>     $Hom(\mathbb{Z}/2,\mathbb{Z}/2) \equiv Hom(\mathbb{Z}/2,\mathbb{Z}/4) \equiv \mathbb{Z}/2$
>     then
>     $$0\to Hom(\mathbb{Z}/2, \mathbb{Z}/2) \to Hom(\mathbb{Z}/2, \mathbb{Z}/4) \to Hom(\mathbb{Z}/2, \mathbb{Z}/2) \to 0$$
>     becomes
>     $$0\to \mathbb{Z}/2\to \mathbb{Z}/2 \to \mathbb{Z}/2 \to 0$$ And
>     so this implies that the maps are identity maps which implies the
>     compositon is not zero, so the sequence is not exact.

> **Problem:**
>
> 1.  Since $G$ has only 1 object $*$, $F$ must have the property
>     $F(*)=*$. Now since $g\in G(*,*)=G$ implies that
>     $F(g)\in H(*,*)=H$. Therefore $F(i_G)=i_H$. and
>     $F(g\cdot h)=F(g)\cdot F(h)$. This implies $F$ is a group
>     homomorphism.
>
>     Now since a natural transofmrtion must hold commutatitivty between
>     it and all morphisms between implies that given $F$ is a group
>     homomorphism implies that a natrual transofmration must consist of
>     $n\circ F(g) = F'(g)\circ a \forall g\in G$ whcih implies that all
>     natural trasformations must look like
>     $F'(g)=n F(g)n^{-1}\forall g\in G$.
>
> 2.  Let $F(X)=X$ and $G(X)=X\cup \{X\}$. Then the commutatitivty
>     diagram for $\alpha(x)=x$ is shown since $\forall x\in X$,
>     $$(G(f)\circ \alpha)(x) = G(f)(x)=f(x)$$
>     $$(\alpha \circ f)(x)=\alpha (f(x)) = f(x)$$ But since
>     $G(\varnothing) = \varnothing \union \{*\} = \{*\}$ and
>     $F(\varnothing)=\varnothing$ implies noncommutativity of any map
>     $\beta$. Thus there is no natural transofmration.
>
> 3.  Suppose
>     $\exists H: C\times I\to D \ \text{s.t.} \ H|_{C\times 0} = F, H|_{C\times 1}=G$.
>     Then let $\alpha: F(c)\to G(c)$ by $H(id_c, 0)\to 1$ for any
>     object $c\in C$. Then since $H$ is a functor implies composition
>     of morphisms $C\times I$ which implies for any morphism
>     $f: c\o c'$ The commutatitivty diagram mapping $F(c) \to G(c)$ and
>     $F(c')\to G(c')$ with $\alpha$ and $F(c)\to F(c'), G(c)\to G(c')$
>     commutes. Therefre there exists a natural transofmration $\alpha$.
>
>     Now suppose there exists $\alpha$. Then Let $H: C\times I \to D$
>     such that $H(c,0)=F(c), H(c,1)=G(C)$ and
>     $(f,id_0): (c,0)\to (c',0)$ implies $H(f, id_0)=F(f)$ and
>     $(f,id_1): (c,1)\to (c',1)$ implies $H(f, id_1)=G(f)$. Therefore
>     since $\alpha$ is a natural transofmration $H$ preserves idenntiy
>     and composition properties which implies $H$ is a functor.
>
> 4.  TODO

> **Problem:**
>
> Recall that a natural transformtion is a transformtion of functors
> that preserves \"naturally\" the internal structure of the categories
> (The transformation is associative and commutes).
>
> This can be shown in $\partial_i$ due to the fact that the boundary
> map has a commutative structure between
> $H_i(A)\to H_i(B)), H_{i+1}(X,A)\to H_{i+1}(Y,B)$ and
> $H_{i+1}(X,A)\to H_i(A), H_{i+1}(Y,B) \to H_i(B)$ since the homology
> groups act as functors $H$ that transform the categories $(X,A)$. This
> shows a nature of structure preservance which implies naturality
>
> Now since $\Sigma X$ of $X$ is $X\times [0,1]/\sim$,
> $(x,0)\sim (x',0), (x,1)\sim(x',1)\forall x, x'\in X$ implies that any
> map $f: X\to Y$ incudes a map $\Sigma X\to \Sigma Y$ such that this
> map commutes with the map induced by $f$. This directly implies a
> natural transofmration.
